Since our original focus on PC graphics, we have expanded to several other large and important computationally intensive fields.

Some of the most recent applications of GPU-powered deep learning include recommendation systems, which are AI algorithms trained to understand the preferences, previous decisions, and characteristics of people and products using data gathered about their interactions, large language models, which can recognize, summarize, translate, predict and generate text and other content based on knowledge gained from massive datasets, and generative AI, which uses algorithms that create new content, including audio, code, images, text, simulations, and videos, based on the data they have been trained on.

Our invention of the GPU in 1999 defined modern computer graphics and established NVIDIA as the leader in computer graphics.

NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together hardware, systems, software, algorithms, libraries, and services to create unique value for the markets we serve.

With our introduction of the CUDA programming model in 2006, we opened the parallel processing capabilities of our GPU for general purpose computing.

A rapidly growing number of enterprises and startups across a broad range of industries use our GPUs and software to bring automation to the products and services they build. The transportation industry is turning to our platforms for autonomous driving; the healthcare industry is leveraging them for enhanced medical imaging and acceleration of drug discovery; and the financial services industry is using them for fraud detection. Professional designers use our GPUs and software to create visual effects in movies and to design buildings and products ranging from cell phones to commercial aircraft.

Termination of the Arm Share Purchase Agreement In February 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank Group Corp., or SoftBank, announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement whereby NVIDIA would have acquired Arm Limited, or Arm, from SoftBank. The parties agreed to terminate because of significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction.

We recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing.

Data Center The NVIDIA computing platform is focused on accelerating the most compute-intensive workloads, such as AI, data analytics, graphics and scientific computing, across hyperscale, cloud, enterprise, public sector, and edge data centers. The platform consists of our energy efficient GPUs, data processing units, or DPUs, interconnects and systems, our CUDA programming model, and a growing body of software libraries, software development kits, or SDKs, application frameworks and services, which are either available as part of the platform or packaged and sold separately.

Data Center The NVIDIA computing platform is focused on accelerating the most compute-intensive workloads, such as AI, data analytics, graphics and scientific computing, across hyperscale, cloud, enterprise, public sector, and edge data centers. The platform consists of our energy efficient GPUs, data processing units, or DPUs, interconnects and systems, our CUDA programming model, and a growing body of software libraries, software development kits, or SDKs, application frameworks and services, which are either available as part of the platform or packaged and sold separately.

H100 is ideal for accelerating applications such as large language models, deep recommender systems, genomics and complex digital twins.

NVIDIA will offer enterprise customers NVIDIA AI cloud services directly and through our network of partners. Examples of these services include NVIDIA DGX Cloud, which is cloud-based infrastructure and software for training AI models, and customizable pretrained AI models.

The NVIDIA Bluefield DPU is supported by foundational data-center-infrastructure-on-a-chip software, or DOCA, that lets developers build software-defined, hardware-accelerated networking, security, storage and management applications for BlueField DPUs.

We also offer the NVIDIA GPU Cloud registry, or NGC, a comprehensive catalog of easy-to-use, optimized software stacks across a range of domains including scientific computing, deep learning, and machine learning. With NGC, AI developers, researchers and data scientists can get started with the development of AI and HPC applications and deploy them on DGX systems, NVIDIA-Certified systems from our partners, or with NVIDIA’s cloud partners.

In fiscal year 2023, we introduced the GeForce RTX 40 Series of gaming GPUs, based on the Ada Lovelace architecture. The 40 Series features our third generation RTX technology, third generation NVIDIA DLSS, and fourth generation Tensor Cores to deliver up to 4X the performance of the previous generation.

The 40 Series features our third generation RTX technology, third generation NVIDIA DLSS, and fourth generation Tensor Cores to deliver up to 4X the performance of the previous generation.

Professional Visualization We serve the Professional Visualization market by working closely with independent software vendors, or ISVs, to optimize their offerings for NVIDIA GPUs. Our GPU computing platform enhances productivity and introduces new capabilities for critical workflows in many fields, such as design and manufacturing and digital content creation.

Many leading 3D design and content creation applications developed by our ecosystem partners now support RTX, allowing professionals to accelerate and transform their workflows with NVIDIA RTX GPUs and software.

Omniverse, virtual reality, or VR, and augmented reality, or AR, are being incorporated in a growing number of enterprise applications. Virtual car showrooms, surgical training, architectural walkthroughs, and bringing historical scenes to life all deploy these technologies, powered by our GPUs.

The DRIVE Software platform includes DRIVE Chauffeur for autonomous driving, mapping and parking services, Drive Concierge for intelligent in-vehicle experiences, and real time conversational AI capability based on NVIDIA Omniverse Avatar software.

investments in research and development: we can support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with shared underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third-party developers and partners. We utilize this platform approach in each of our target markets.

We provide a complete, end-to-end accelerated computing platform for deep learning and machine learning, addressing both training and inferencing. This includes GPUs, interconnects, systems, our CUDA programming language, algorithms, libraries, and other software.

Advancing the leading autonomous vehicle platform. We believe the advent of AV will soon revolutionize the transportation industry. In our view, AI is the key technology enabler of this opportunity, as the algorithms required for autonomous driving - such as perception, localization, and planning - are too complex for legacy hand-coded approaches and will use multiple trained neural networks instead. Therefore, we provide a full functionally safe AI-based hardware and software solution for the AV market under the DRIVE brand, which we are bringing to market through our partnerships with automotive original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, tier-1 suppliers, and start-ups.

Our technologies are instrumental in driving gaming forward, as developers leverage our libraries and algorithms to deliver an optimized gaming experience on our GeForce platform. Our computer graphics platforms leverage not only our industry-leading GeForce and NVIDIA RTX GPUs, but also optimized software stacks. For example, GeForce Experience enhances each gamer’s experience by optimizing their PC’s settings, as well as enabling the recording and sharing of gameplay. Our Studio drivers enhance and accelerate a number of popular creative applications. Omniverse is real-time 3D design collaboration and virtual world simulation software that empowers artists, designers and creators to connect and collaborate in leading design applications.

Sales and Marketing Our worldwide sales and marketing strategy is key to achieving our objective of providing markets with our high-performance and efficient computing platforms and software. Our sales and marketing teams, located across our global markets, work closely with end customers and various industry ecosystems through our partner network. Our partner network incorporates each industry's respective OEMs, original device manufacturers, or ODMs, system builders, add-in board manufacturers, or AIBs, retailers/distributors, ISVs, internet and CSPs, automotive manufacturers and tier-1 automotive suppliers, mapping companies, start-ups, and other ecosystem participants.

partner network in designing, testing, and qualifying system designs that incorporate our platforms.

To encourage the development of applications optimized for our platforms and software, we seek to establish and maintain strong relationships in the software development community. Our developer program makes our products available to developers prior to launch in order to encourage the development of AI frameworks, SDKs, and APIs for software applications and game titles that are optimized for our platforms. Our Deep Learning Institute provides in-person and online training for developers in industries and organizations around the world to build AI and accelerated computing applications that leverage our platforms.

Our consumer products typically see stronger revenue in the second half of our fiscal year. In addition, based on the production schedules of key customers, some of our products for notebooks and game consoles typically generate stronger revenue in the second and third quarters, and weaker revenue in the fourth and first quarters.

We do not manufacture semiconductors used for our products. Instead, we utilize a fabless manufacturing strategy, whereby we employ key suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing, and packaging.

We utilize suppliers, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd, to produce our semiconductor wafers.

Competition  The market for our products is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and partners and distribution channels, software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, processor pricing, and total system costs.

We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and partners and distribution channels, software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, processor pricing, and total system costs. We believe that our ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and functions that customers and partners will demand and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable levels of quality and at competitive prices. We expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be lower priced than ours or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. In addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share.

A significant source of competition comes from companies that provide or intend to provide GPUs, CPUs, DPUs, embedded SoCs, and other accelerated, AI computing processor produits, and providers of semiconductor-based high-performance interconnect products based on InfiniBand, Ethernet, Fibre Channel and proprietary technologies.

Patents and Proprietary Rights We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our IP in the United States and internationally.

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the U.S. government announced new license requirements that impact certain exports to China (including Hong Kong and Macau) and Russia of some of our data center products.

In February 2022, we announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement by which we would have acquired Arm due to significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction. We recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing.

In February 2022, we announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement by which we would have acquired Arm due to significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction. We recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing.

By the end of fiscal year 2025, our goal is to purchase or generate enough renewable energy to match 100% of our global electricity usage for our offices and data centers.

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the U.S. government announced new license requirements that impact certain exports to China (including Hong Kong and Macau) and Russia of some of our data center products.

The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for reviewing and discussing with management our practices related to ESG.

Human Capital Management We believe that our employees are our greatest assets, and they play a key role in creating long-term value for our stakeholders. As of the end of fiscal year 2023, we had 26,196 employees in 35 countries, 19,532 were engaged in research and development and 6,664 were engaged in sales, marketing, operations, and administrative positions.

Recruitment As the demand for global technical talent continues to be competitive, we have grown our technical workforce and have been successful in attracting top talent to NVIDIA. We have attracted strong talent globally with our differentiated hiring strategies for university, professional, executive and diverse recruits. The COVID-19 pandemic created expanded hiring opportunities in new geographies and provided increased  flexibility for employees to work from locations of their choice. Our workforce is about 80% technical and about 50% hold advanced degrees.

We want NVIDIA to be a place where people can build their careers over their lifetime. Our employees tend to come and stay. In fiscal year 2023, our overall turnover rate was 5.3%.

