question :



What are the technological features of the GeForce RTX 40 Series GPUs?



context : 



Our technologies are instrumental in driving gaming forward, as developers leverage our libraries and algorithms to deliver an optimized gaming experience on our GeForce platform.
In fiscal year 2023, we introduced the GeForce RTX 40 Series of gaming GPUs, based on the Ada Lovelace architecture.
For example, GeForce Experience enhances each gamer’s experience by optimizing their PC’s settings, as well as enabling the recording and sharing of gameplay.
Our computer graphics platforms leverage not only our industry-leading GeForce and NVIDIA RTX GPUs, but also optimized software stacks.
Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also promoting NVIDIA products.
Data Center The NVIDIA computing platform is focused on accelerating the most compute-intensive workloads, such as AI, data analytics, graphics and scientific computing, across hyperscale, cloud, enterprise, public sector, and edge data centers.
NVIDIA will offer enterprise customers NVIDIA AI cloud services directly and through our network of partners.
Ownership of NVIDIA Securities Information regarding ownership of NVIDIA securities required by this item will be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,” and is hereby incorporated by reference.


Examples of these services include NVIDIA DGX Cloud, which is cloud-based infrastructure and software for training AI models, and customizable pretrained AI models.


The NVIDIA Bluefield DPU is supported by foundational data-center-infrastructure-on-a-chip software, or DOCA, that lets developers build software-defined, hardware-accelerated networking, security, storage and management applications for BlueField DPUs.


We also offer the NVIDIA GPU Cloud registry, or NGC, a comprehensive catalog of easy-to-use, optimized software stacks across a range of domains including scientific computing, deep learning, and machine learning.
Our invention of the GPU in 1999 defined modern computer graphics and established NVIDIA as the leader in computer graphics.


With NGC, AI developers, researchers and data scientists can get started with the development of AI and HPC applications and deploy them on DGX systems, NVIDIA-Certified systems from our partners, or with NVIDIA’s cloud partners.


The 40 Series features our third generation RTX technology, third generation NVIDIA DLSS, and fourth generation Tensor Cores to deliver up to 4X the performance of the previous generation.


Professional Visualization We serve the Professional Visualization market by working closely with independent software vendors, or ISVs, to optimize their offerings for NVIDIA GPUs.
Many leading 3D design and content creation applications developed by our ecosystem partners now support RTX, allowing professionals to accelerate and transform their workflows with NVIDIA RTX GPUs and software.


The DRIVE Software platform includes DRIVE Chauffeur for autonomous driving, mapping and parking services, Drive Concierge for intelligent in-vehicle experiences, and real time conversational AI capability based on NVIDIA Omniverse Avatar software.

investments in research and development: we can support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with shared underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third-party developers and partners.
NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together hardware, systems, software, algorithms, libraries, and services to create unique value for the markets we serve.


Recruitment As the demand for global technical talent continues to be competitive, we have grown our technical workforce and have been successful in attracting top talent to NVIDIA.
We want NVIDIA to be a place where people can build their careers over their lifetime.
Termination of the Arm Share Purchase Agreement In February 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank Group Corp., or SoftBank, announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement whereby NVIDIA would have acquired Arm Limited, or Arm, from SoftBank.
Colette M. Kress joined NVIDIA in 2013 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Kress most recently served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Business Technology and Operations Finance organization at Cisco Systems, Inc., a networking eq...


Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Shoquist served from 2004 to 2007 as Executive Vice President of Operations at JDS Uniphase Corp., a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications industry.


Available Information Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on or through our website, http://www.nvidia.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.


Timothy S. Teter joined NVIDIA in 2017 as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and became Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in February 2018.


Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998.


Fueled by the sustained demand for exceptional 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has leveraged its GPU architecture to create platforms for scientific computing, AI, data science, AV, robotics, metaverse and 3D internet applications.


Termination of the Arm Share Purchase Agreement In February 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement whereby NVIDIA would have acquired Arm from SoftBank due to significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction.


Data Center revenue was up 41% from a year ago led by strong growth from hyperscale customers and also reflects purchases made by several CSP partners to support multi-year cloud service agreements for our new NVIDIA AI cloud service offerings and our research and development activities.


In February 2022, we announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement by which we would have acquired Arm due to significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction.
As of the end of fiscal year 2023, our global workforce was 80% male, 19% female, and 1% not declared, with 6% of our workforce in the United States composed of Black or African American and Hispanic or Latino employees.


Human Capital Management
We also adjust to other market factors, such as product offerings and pricing actions by our competitors, new product transitions, and macroeconomic conditions - all of which may impact demand for our products.


In our view, AI is the key technology enabler of this opportunity, as the algorithms required for autonomous driving - such as perception, localization, and planning - are too complex for legacy hand-coded approaches and will use multiple trained neural networks instead.
Our Studio drivers enhance and accelerate a number of popular creative applications.
Compute & Networking | $ | 15,068
We account for customer programs as a reduction to revenue and accrue for potential rebates and MDFs based on the amount we expect to be claimed by customers.


We recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing.


| | $
We have unrecognized tax benefits of $1.02 billion, which includes related interest and penalties of $95 million, recorded in non-current income tax payable at the end of fiscal year 2023.


| 4,022
Advancing the leading autonomous vehicle platform.
ITEM 11.
During fiscal year 2023, we returned $10.44 billion to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and cash dividends.


By the end of fiscal year 2025, our goal is to purchase or generate enough renewable energy to match 100% of our global electricity usage for our offices and data centers.


We believe that our employees are our greatest assets, and they play a key role in creating long-term value for our stakeholders.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information regarding our executive compensation required by this item will be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the captions “Executive Compensation”, “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation”, “Director Compensation” and “Compensation Committee Report,” and is hereby incorporated by reference.


As of the end of fiscal year 2023, we had 26,196 employees in 35 countries, 19,532 were engaged in research and development and 6,664 were engaged in sales, marketing, operations, and administrative positions.


Some of the most recent applications of GPU-powered deep learning include recommendation systems, which are AI algorithms trained to understand the preferences, previous decisions, and characteristics of people and products using data gathered about their interactions, large language models, which can recognize, summarize, translate, predict and generate text and other content based on knowledge gained from massive datasets, and generative AI, which uses algorithms that create new content, including audio, code, images, text, simulations, and videos, based on the data they have been trained on.


Sales and Marketing Our worldwide sales and marketing strategy is key to achieving our objective of providing markets with our high-performance and efficient computing platforms and software.
As of the end of fiscal year 2023, we had not issued any commercial paper.


Mr. Teter holds a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California at Davis and a J.D. degree from Stanford Law School.


During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the U.S. government announced new license requirements that impact certain exports to China (including Hong Kong and Macau) and Russia of some of our data center products.


Our partner network incorporates each industry's respective OEMs, original device manufacturers, or ODMs, system builders, add-in board manufacturers, or AIBs, retailers/distributors, ISVs, internet and CSPs, automotive manufacturers and tier-1 automotive suppliers, mapping companies, start-ups, and other ecosystem participants.

partner network in designing, testing, and qualifying system designs that incorporate our platforms.


Equity Compensation Plan Information Information regarding our equity compensation plans required by this item will be contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the caption "Equity Compensation Plan Information," and is hereby incorporated by reference.


Our Deep Learning Institute provides in-person and online training for developers in industries and organizations around the world to build AI and accelerated computing applications that leverage our platforms.


We have attracted strong talent globally with our differentiated hiring strategies for university, professional, executive and diverse recruits.
Our consumer products typically see stronger revenue in the second half of our fiscal year.
The increase in research and development expense for fiscal year 2023 was primarily driven by increased compensation, employee growth, engineering development costs, and data center infrastructure.


We provide a complete, end-to-end accelerated computing platform for deep learning and machine learning, addressing both training and inferencing.
Our sales and marketing teams, located across our global markets, work closely with end customers and various industry ecosystems through our partner network.
During fiscal year 2024, we expect to use our existing cash and cash equivalents, our marketable securities, and the cash generated by our operations to fund our capital investments of approximately $1.10 billion to $1.30 billion related to property and equipment.


We curate learning paths focused on our most common development needs and constantly upgrade our offerings to ensure that our employees are exposed to the most current programs and technologies available.


To the extent realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more-likely-than-not, we would recognize such deferred tax assets as income tax benefits during the period.


We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: (1) identification of the contract with a customer; (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determination of the transaction price; (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract (where revenue is allocated on a relative standalone selling  price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the standalone selling price for each performance obligation); and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation.


This includes GPUs, interconnects, systems, our CUDA programming language, algorithms, libraries, and other software.


Virtual car showrooms, surgical training, architectural walkthroughs, and bringing historical scenes to life all deploy these technologies, powered by our GPUs.


Our employees tend to come and stay.
A rapidly growing number of enterprises and startups across a broad range of industries use our GPUs and software to bring automation to the products and services they build.
Jen-Hsun Huang holds a B.S.E.E. degree from Oregon State University and an M.S.E.E. degree from Stanford University.


Development and Retention To support employee development, we provide opportunities to learn on-the-job through training programs, one on one coaching and ongoing feedback.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for reviewing and discussing with management our practices related to ESG.


In doing so, we must account for our third-party manufacturers' lead times and constraints.
Since our original focus on PC graphics, we have expanded to several other large and important computationally intensive fields.


Our two operating segments are "Compute & Networking" and "Graphics."
Our developer program makes our products available to developers prior to launch in order to encourage the development of AI frameworks, SDKs, and APIs for software applications and game titles that are optimized for our platforms.
Inventory provisions for excess inventory and purchase obligations totaled $2.17 billion in fiscal year 2023.


During fiscal year 2023, end customer sales for our products in China have been negatively impacted by lockdowns and this impact may continue if lockdowns return.


Omniverse is real-time 3D design collaboration and virtual world simulation software that empowers artists, designers and creators to connect and collaborate in leading design applications.


Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.


As of January 29, 2023, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $7.23 billion through December 2023.


With our introduction of the CUDA programming model in 2006, we opened the parallel processing capabilities of our GPU for general purpose computing.


Data Center revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $15.01 billion, up 41% from fiscal year 2022.


As a fabless semiconductor company, we must make commitments to purchase inventory based on forecasts of future customer demand.
Automotive revenue for fiscal year 2023 grew 60% compared to fiscal year 2022 to $903 million.


| 36 | % --


Revenue by Reportable Segments | Year Ended
We have a library of live and on-demand learning experiences that include workshops, panel discussions, and speaker forums.
The parties agreed to terminate because of significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction.


Therefore, we provide a full functionally safe AI-based hardware and software solution for the AV market under the DRIVE brand, which we are bringing to market through our partnerships with automotive original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, tier-1 suppliers, and start-ups.


The platform consists of our energy efficient GPUs, data processing units, or DPUs, interconnects and systems, our CUDA programming model, and a growing body of software libraries, software development kits, or SDKs, application frameworks and services, which are either available as part of the platform or packaged and sold separately.


In fiscal year 2023, our overall turnover rate was 5.3%.


|
The overall net effect on our gross margin from inventory provisions and sales of items previously written down was an unfavorable impact of 7.5% in fiscal year 2023 and 0.9% in fiscal year 2022.


As of the end of fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we had a valuation allowance of $1.48 billion and $907 million, respectively, related to capital loss carryforwards, state, and certain other deferred tax assets that management determined not likely to be realized due, in part, to jurisdictional projections of future taxable income, including capital gains.


Gaming revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $9.07 billion, down 27% from fiscal year 2022.


| 11,046
Our workforce is about 80% technical and about 50% hold advanced degrees.


The transportation industry is turning to our platforms for autonomous driving; the healthcare industry is leveraging them for enhanced medical imaging and acceleration of drug discovery; and the financial services industry is using them for fraud detection.
Omniverse, virtual reality, or VR, and augmented reality, or AR, are being incorporated in a growing number of enterprise applications.
Based on the carrying amounts of a majority of our server, storage, network, and assembly and test equipment, net in use as of the end of fiscal year 2023, it is estimated this change will increase our fiscal year 2024 operating income by $133 million as a result of the reduction in depreciation expense.


Refer to Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.


Our GPU computing platform enhances productivity and introduces new capabilities for critical workflows in many fields, such as design and manufacturing and digital content creation.


We believe the advent of AV will soon revolutionize the transportation industry.
To encourage the development of applications optimized for our platforms and software, we seek to establish and maintain strong relationships in the software development community.
| | | $
The COVID-19 pandemic created expanded hiring opportunities in new geographies and provided increased  flexibility for employees to work from locations of their choice.
We utilize this platform approach in each of our target markets.


Professional designers use our GPUs and software to create visual effects in movies and to design buildings and products ranging from cell phones to commercial aircraft.


In addition, based on the production schedules of key customers, some of our products for notebooks and game consoles typically generate stronger revenue in the second and third quarters, and weaker revenue in the fourth and first quarters.


H100 is ideal for accelerating applications such as large language models, deep recommender systems, genomics and complex digital twins.


A significant source of competition comes from companies that provide or intend to provide GPUs, CPUs, DPUs, embedded SoCs, and other accelerated, AI computing processor produits, and providers of semiconductor-based high-performance interconnect products based on InfiniBand, Ethernet, Fibre Channel and proprietary technologies.


We utilize suppliers, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd, to produce our semiconductor wafers.


Instead, we utilize a fabless manufacturing strategy, whereby we employ key suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing, and packaging.


We do not manufacture semiconductors used for our products.
Competition  The market for our products is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards.
We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and partners and distribution channels, software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, processor pricing, and total system costs.


We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and partners and distribution channels, software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, processor pricing, and total system costs.
We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes.
+ | January 29,2023
| $ | 9,108

Cash provided by operating activities decreased in fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022, primarily due to a decrease in net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as the Arm acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion, and higher tax payments, partially offset by changes in working capital.


| | January 30,2022
| | $Change |
| Total long-term portion | $ | 9,703


We expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be lower priced than ours or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products.
We believe that our ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and functions that customers and partners will demand and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable levels of quality and at competitive prices.
Net carrying amount | 10,953
In addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share.


| Less short-term portion | (1,250)
Patents and Proprietary Rights We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our IP in the United States and internationally.

